=Versioning MindTree Distributions=

MindTree releases are numbered with three parts:  x.y.z-p

   x is the major version number
   y is a minor version number
   z is a patch number
   p pre-release

===Major Versions===

   - New Features

   - The external data format becomes incompatible with that of older versions.

===Minor Versions===

   - Enhancements to features

   - New Core Plugins

===Patch Numbers===

   - Bug fixes


===Pre-Releases===

   A pre-release includes alphas, betas and release candidates.  Distribution
   releases (final releases) shall omitt the pre-release suffix altogether.
   Pre-releases releases shall have the following version numbering.

   <pre-release level> <number>

   pre-release level is:
      'a',  alpha (Experimental phase)
            - design in flux
            - data formats in flux
            - stability unknown (many features untested)
      'b',  beta (Testing/debugging phase)
            - design stable
            - data formats stable
            - stability unknown - developer testing
      'c',  release candidate (Trial phase)
            - design stable
            - data formats stable
            - moderate stability - community testing
      'd',  distribution (distribution phase)

   number:

      Each time we enter a new phase, numbering begins again at 001.

   Once beta testing is complete the product shall enter c-phase (release
   candidate).  At this point the majority of testing is completed and the
   product is released to the community for general use.  The product shall
   remain in c-phase for 90 days.  During this time the majority of testing
   is performed by practical usage of the general community.  Reported
   bugs are repaird.  At the end of the 90 days, the product goes into final
   release (the pre-release) tag on the version numbering is dropped.

MindTree Prereleases (alphas, betas and release candidates) shall have the
following versioning.


=Plugin Versioning=

For versioning and distribution purposes MindTree considers two kinds of
plugins:  Core and Non-Core.  A Core plugin is a plugin which is part of
the standard MindTree distribution.  A Non-Core plugin is any other plugin.

Core plugins share their version numbers with the main application.  Though
from a developer's point of view they are plugins and must therefore abide
by all the requirements of any other plugin, from an end-user point of view
they are part of MindTree.  As such for example if a new releases is made
which includes bug fixes only to core plugins, the patch number is still
incremented.

Non-Core plugins have lives of their own.  Therefore, they may be versioned
separately.

